I'm just taping this now, L.D., just to see how we pick up.
I just want to just say something.
All right.
I'll repeat that I'm so happy you're here today, Nick.
I've been looking forward to your visit a lot.
Why don't I just say that we're with L.D.
Brodsky.
We're...
in his car.
We're on Interstate.
Are we on an Interstate?
On Interstate 40, going to 270, getting ready to head southeast to Cape Girardeau, Missouri.
Cape Girardeau.
For the benefit of my typist, how do we spell that?
Cape.
C-A-P-E-G-I-R-A-R-D-E-A-U, and it's 10-3.
Okay, thank you.
We're on LD, and I'm just going to keep this close to you because what you have to say is most important.
Where do you want to start?
Let's see started.
How old are you?
I'm almost 50.
I'll be 50 in April.
And I started collecting books when I was at Yale as a freshman or a sophomore.
I almost can't remember anymore, but I was probably 19.
And I went to Yale in 1959.
I think I started collecting in 60.
And that was real haphazard.
There was a wonderful book dealer named Henry Wenning in New Haven, and he was on my way to the Payne Whitney Gymnasium.
I was on the Yale crew, freshman and then varsity.
And so I would work out every day.
And on my way from my dormitory or college to the gym, I would stop by Henry's shop.
I wandered in there because I was learning something about literature.
And he had the most wonderful shelves full of books that just made me awe-filled.
I would see copies of Moby Dick.
I think the book is called The Whale.
And then I would see inscribed books
that I liked, such as Theodore Dreiser's Sister Carrie, which even as a young man I was very much in love with.
I loved Main Street and Babbitt by Sinclair Lewis, and there were inscribed copies of those books.
You just wanted to see these?
Yeah, I'd go in.
Well, I wandered in by accident one day because it said Henry Wenning Bookshop.
And I probably thought it was just another bookshop where I could buy my school books.
I don't know how it happened.
I was not a bibliophile.
But then when I got in there, I was so in awe
of the books that i had been reading as a freshman and sophomore that i was really uh first introduced to at yale not in high school even though i went to a really fine prep school uh st louis country day school here which is still just an outstanding school one of the tenth
Best in the country.
It's every bit the equivalent of Andover and Exeter.
So, no, I thought I was well prepared to go to college.
I had never read any Faulkner, had never read any Sinclair Lewis or Dreiser.
A kid really does, kids generally don't come to Faulkner.
No, but now in high schools they're teaching a lot of Faulkner.
You almost can't go to a high school anymore.
without seeing that on their curriculum they're teaching the bear at least.
Sometimes The Unvanquished is taught because people think that's an easy novel and it's really not an easy novel at all.
I'd have expected it to get started with Thomas Wolfe.
When you go back to Thomas Wolfe, what were we so excited about when we read him?
I loved it.
I remember I was introduced to Look Homeward Angel.
At the same time, I was introduced to The Sound and the Fury.
And the one remained extremely memorable.
It resonated right away for me, which was The Sound and the Fury.
But Look Homeward Angel, which I found very elegiac, very melodious, even as a young man,
And I wouldn't have used those terms then because I wouldn't have responded to those books that way.
But even then, I wasn't turned on to Wolfe.
And I'm not sure why.
I've never really returned to Thomas Wolfe.
But all these years, I've continued to reread Falker with great, great pleasure.
Well, Falker has layers that...
There's always something new.
It's like Shakespeare, you know.
Well, I'll tell you what happened to me.
Or Melville even.
I mean, there's always a new layer.
Wonderful layers.
But now as a person who has been a poet for 25 years and who considers himself a ruminative person, I've had much time to think about all that.
And what I think now is that the reason I was drawn to Faulkner, and most specifically to The Sound and the Fury, which R.W.B.
Lewis taught in his introductory English class, which is where I first read that book,
Why I was drawn to that book was this.
I was Quentin Compson, the young little brooding guy.
And in essence, though, I wouldn't have known it then, the guy from the South.
Because though I would never have dreamed of it, St.
Louis is Southern.
St.
Louisans to this day don't know they're southern here, so they have no sense of place.
It's really weird.
I could take you 250 miles down the road to Memphis, and they damn well know they're southern.
This is Memphis what, by the way?
Tennessee.
That's as close as we are now?
We're that close.
We could be down there in five hours.
No kidding.
I never knew that growing up here, that we were so close.
We could drive you just south of Cape Girardeau, where I'm going today, and you'll see cotton growing 20 miles south of Cape.
That begins the mid-south.
I was Quentin and didn't know it.
I was a little brooding young man who was very frightened having gone off to school for the first time.
I was very ruminative and introspective.
I was very sensitive.
I hadn't yet found what it was I was to become, which was a poet.
I never would have dreamed because in high school I was a really profound athlete.
And I captained my Yale soccer team and Yale crew team.
And then I went on to play varsity soccer.
I was an athlete.
I was a character
Caught in the middle.
I didn't know what I was developing into at that time when I read The Sound and the Fury and those other books.
But I was Quentin.
And I know now, because I've written some very beautiful poems in a book called Mississippi Vistas, actually I've written a trilogy of southern poems.
called the Mississippi Trilogy.
Mississippi Vistas is volume one, which Malcolm Cowley and Penn Warren and Pleant all loved, and they've endorsed.
And then there's volumes two and three, Mistress Mississippi and Disappearing in Mississippi Latitudes, which will come out in the next few years.
But those books all attest to that original association, I guess.
Now, that's an elaborate way of telling you how I came to folk, because in essence, what happened when I first went into winning,
I saw some Faulkner books, too.
But at the time, when I first began, and I wanted to have all those books near me, I thought, wouldn't it be neat to have a Sister Carrie?
Well, I didn't have a signed one.
Wouldn't it be nice to have a Main Street?
Wouldn't it be nice to have a book of Faulkner's?
At the Yale Co-op, no one was collecting Faulkner's, so at the Yale Co-op, there were three signed limited editions, Requiem, The Town, and The Mansion.
When I went there in 59 they were all on the shelves for like six or seven bucks and they had what at the time I wouldn't have called uh certificate of limitation pages or colophon pages, but they had his inscription his, not a description, his signature those pages so I bought those, and then I thought oh that's real neat. I have some signatures by the man who wrote the book. When uh like what year in school? That was in 59 and 60.
Those were my first years at Yale.
So you became a collector?
Well, I collected 10 or 12 writers.
I had a few Tennessee Williams, a few Lewis, a few Dreiser.
Who else did I collect?
A few Robert Frost.
I loved Frost.
I said Tennessee Williams.
I had a couple Faulkner books.
By the time I left Yale, they gave me an award.
I'll never forget the trauma.
Did you win the Book Collecting Award?
They gave me second place in the Arthur Hoskins Award.
Oh, Jesus.
That's a big award at Yale.
Yeah, but they gave me second place, and it was so disillusioning, I was shattered.
Well, who got first place?
Well, that's what I'm leading up to.
By the time that award, by the time I made my...
entry as a senior I had almost 200 and some odd Faulkner books, not many of them valuable.
But I'd already at that point decided I wasn't going to collect all those other people.
And so I began trading those books in.
And I began acquiring more of the Faulkner books.
And they were cheap books, $5, $6, $8, $10 dollar books.
But there were a couple hundred, and the collection was pretty neat.
So I entered the contest, and I just knew I was going to win.
It was one of those things that you do, and you know you're going to succeed.
Well, when it was awarded, when the awards were made,
two things happened, and they both shattered me.
One was an ironic blow, because in being told that I was given second place, and that I had been beaten out by a collector of railroad timetables, I thought, Jesus Christ, is this book collecting?
What am I doing?
Here I thought I was a book collector, and it's obvious that that's not what book collecting is all about, because timetables won.
That disillusioned me, I remember.
Do you remember who it was?
I don't remember, but...
The other thing I do remember about that was that the award they gave me for second place, first place was a cash prize.
Second place was a second printing of A Farewell to Arms by Ernest Hemingway with No Dust Jack.
And this was just somehow real ironic to me.
So it was... Is it still rankled?
It only rankles enough so that I would still remember to tell it to you.
I find it quite amusing.
It rankles.
I guess it does rank on it.
Maybe it does.
You know, this is very interesting to me, I'll tell you, because this book collecting prize is a very cute way, you know, to get people.
I mean, there's an ulterior motive to this whole thing, you know, the university stuff.
I mean, what they try to do is nurture the future benefactors.
Sure.
Well, that's where I was, this little guy.
I was like 21.
I say little guy.
I wasn't little physically, but I was young.
And I was immature.
And here I was on the brink of that.
If they were trying to nurture me, Franz Liebert, was that his name?
Herbert.
Herman Liebert.
He was a real book collector from Yale and an important book person.
Herman Fritz Liebert.
And he's the one who conducted the awards.
And he was a real big book man in New York.
Part of the Grolier Club, I think.
I wonder why you didn't get it.
Well, someone decided that the collection of timetables was more significant.
Do you think that the kid who wanted, I hate to be a true cynic, though, was a very wealthy kid?
Oh, yeah.
And I think that's quite possible.
Knowing what I learned at Yale, and I learned a lot,
What I learned a lot about was nepotism. Yeah there's a whole lot of. What I'm saying is maybe they're looking to the future you know. Maybe they were and who knows. Uh all I was was a kid from the midwest who had about 200 Faulkner books. At the time I was collecting Faulkner books, Nick, there were three Faulkner collectors in the whole country. Faulkner was in disrepute. That's why I could buy, that's why I could buy three signed limited editions of this of the Mansion the Town and Requiem for a Nun at the Yale co-op as remainder copies
They had five or six of each of those.
They'd come up from New York and been remaindered and sitting in the book.
Maybe this judge imposed his own literary myopia on you.
Maybe he thought that you were not collecting productively.
Maybe he was also trying to tell me that Ernest Hemingway was infinitely more significant.
That's why they gave me that book.
Maybe he was trying to tell me you're a jerk off for collecting your fault.
Here's the guy you should be collecting.
I mean, I don't know.
It's an interesting thought.
At what point do you realize that you're a collector?
What is it?
I mean, a collector, you know?
I think you realize that at least I'm not going to speak for all collectors.
I think whether it's
Well, let's start taking another test.
Just let me say, by passing the Mark Twain bank, just a little bit of color for the test.
Yeah, we're on circumferential Highway 270, spurting St.
Louis, getting ready to head south.
OK.
I think when you know you're a collector is when all of a sudden you can't verbalize it, but a certain passion infects you.
And I was obviously, at that early date, infected with the passion of collecting not books, but Faulkner.
I would like to put it that way.
I don't think of myself as a book collector, but someone so turned on
to someone who made books.
Except that.
Why then was it necessary to get first editions?
Why couldn't you just content yourself with copies of the text to read?
Okay well I think I tried to suggest that and I'll do it better now. I began to feel passionately involved with Quentin Tompson and with the other members who were playing roles in the book called the Sound and the Fury and because I was so totally drawn into that just as if you went to a play on Broadway and it was affecting enough, that it drew you in, that it made you a believer. Well the Sound and the Fury made me a believer and I thought my god anybody who can write like that
I want to read more.
Yeah, but the artifact.
Well, I wanted the artifact.
I needed a personal connection.
All points present, dust jackets, you know what I'm saying?
No, it didn't start out with that at all.
There was not that in place in the beginning.
That came much later.
But what there was in the beginning was this affinity.
And an affinity so strong that it wasn't just emotional.
It almost was anagogical.
It was almost mystical.
And I sensed it.
And it was at that time that the young poet that I hadn't yet become was evolving, was trying to phoenix out of me, out of my soul.
And it was taking the shape of little Quentin, who himself was an extremely poetic, if ineffectual character in American literature, in life, if you will.
I probably...
was Quentin.
I probably still have some of Quentin's attributes, but I grew into a man who is effective into an artist.
Spell Quentin for my type.
Q-U-E-N-T-I-N, Tompson, T-O-M-P-S-O-N.
That's for my type.
But Nick, I did know that I wanted to hold a book that Faulkner had put his hand to, at least I thought he had, long enough to sign it.
In fact, if I had known much about
first signed limited editions at that time, like I know now, I would also know that he probably never had put his hand to that particular book, rather that Random House would have sent him a couple hundred sheets for him to sign, and then he would have returned them, and then they got sewn into the book.
But I sensed that he had had his hand.
At the time, there were no presentation copies of Faulkner available.
Matter of fact, as I said to repeat, no one collected Faulkner.
Linton Massey, a man at the time I didn't know at all, Carl Peterson had already been collecting.
Toby Holtzman had been collecting in Michigan.
Holtzman is H-O-L-T-Z.
M-A-N.
Erwin T. Holtzman, he just gave his collection to Michigan, University of Michigan, but his collection he truncated.
He sold his off to him.
He didn't have near the collection that Carl and I had.
But he took all the good stuff to get some money and sold those off.
And I bought a bunch of those pieces.
And then he gave and made a big to-do at Michigan about how he gave his collection.
And all he gave was the bottom of the pyramid.
You know, the base.
Gave the base, but not the finical material.
Anyway there were no people collecting that. I got interested in collecting and wanting to own books by Faulkner because I thought my god anyone who can write like that I want to be close to him. And if but i had that same feeling at one time for Tennessee Williams. I just thought it was intriguing to be able to have a book with the inscription of the author in it. Now I was only 21 and I collected at Yale and I went home from Yale back to St. Louis with about 200 books 250 something like that
and uh a Farewell to Arms in my collection. And you thought that your collection was really hot stuff out there right? Well it was hot stuff I thought because when I went back to St. Louis and I entered Washington University first with the thought of taking a business degree and then working toward a master's in English in 1964 just a year after I got back there, we put on
at Washington Hughes Olin Library, a wonderful first exhibit of Faulkner.
And that was real nice.
And it was followed in 65 by the St.
Louis Public Library downtown putting on the exhibit.
They were very impressed.
Now, that exhibit did not have a Marble Faun in it.
It did not have any inscribed copies.
It certainly had no letters, no inscribed photographs, no manuscripts.
It just was a run of first editions that were assorted.
It had none of the quality Faulkner books because I was
Just beginning.
And yet, an interesting thing happened at that time, and I didn't remember it until right now.
Toby Holtzman happened to have been in St.
Louis on an architect's convention, attending an architect's convention.
He was a builder.
And he saw in the paper the advertisement for the collection being exhibited at the St.
Louis Public Library.
He phoned me.
And he came out and we visited.
We spent a day together.
And I thought, well, that's really fun.
Here's another man who's really avidly interested in what I'm doing and no one else was.
And so I met Toby way back.
Then I didn't see Toby for another 10 or 12 years after that.
But then when we saw each other again, we knew right away.
Did the collection ever go into a dormant phase at all?
Yeah, it did.
They came back from Yale in 64.
And by 67,
I had taken on a new interest altogether, and that was the collecting of Americana, horn phonographs, music machines, brass cash registers, sewing machines that were quite antique.
You're a collector.
Well, that's part of it, too.
You'd find that with most book collectors.
There are prior collections and prior activities.
I learned this with Bill Hayen.
He's a stamp collector.
I used to be a stamp collector.
Carl Peterson, I think, told me he was a coin collector.
He collected other strange stuff, too, like collectors do.
I collected bottle caps when I was a little kid.
You know, stuff like that.
And I still tend to keep junk.
Well, I'm a junk keeper.
I keep everything.
All my letters, the envelopes, bills.
But that's who we are.
And I think part of that, the best part of that,
attitude may be that you cherish your living so that you want to keep all the little parts of it together. You want to. I think it's going to be it. What is this fascination for things? I knew as a poet as much as anyone appreciates the fragility of life. Oh absolutely. It's such an ephemeral
existence, is it ironic, then, that we should place such a great value on objects?
No, I don't think it's ironic at all.
I think it's a way of holding on.
What I do with my writing, the poetry, I'm very, very aware that it's not a futile, but a feverish attempt to arrest all of these moments that I can, these beautiful, precious moments.
And I said somewhere at a writer's conference that I
shared in or participated in recently that one of the lines from one of my poems says something that this affected, my dying shall not be squandered on cosmic silence, which is an attempt to want to leave something behind, which is an attempt to say no to death.
And I do it with the art, with my art, with my poetry, with my writing.
It's a way of saying, yeah, Brodsky was here, or Faulkner used to call it, Kilroy was here.
But I do it with the collecting too.
I got to the point where what I wanted to do with the collecting so that it would have been a devastation to consider getting rid of it.
And I ultimately knew that it would have to go into the public domain.
It's important that the collection is a statement.
Yes, it is a statement.
It's important to you that it be the Brodsky collection, too.
I don't have a big ego.
I don't really care, Nick.
One bit that it's the Brodsky collection at this point.
I'm going to challenge you on that.
Well, we can talk about it more and we can find out.
I truly don't.
I am an artist.
I'm a poet.
All that's behind me.
The collection is a testimony to passion, enormous passion, a great desire to want to bring something together for various reasons, most of them scholarly.
I got great enjoyment out of doing it.
I get equal pleasure in knowing that it is somewhere relatively safe now where people in the future can enjoy it.
You can take my name off of it today, and I couldn't give one flaming shit.
Now, I would not say the same thing with my poetry.
I have a great ego as an artist, but it is not again that I need celebrity.
It is that I need you to read my work.
This collection came to this school that we're going to today with some
Pretty tight strings attached.
No, one reason it went to that school is a no-name school.
You imposed some very strict... Well, that was just so that no one would fuck it up.
Okay.
But I put it there.
That ought to tell you a little bit about my attitude.
Why isn't it at the Beinecke?
Why isn't it?
Well, because... Certainly not because you got second place in the book collecting competition.
No, that's true.
It isn't...
I'll show you, you sensitive.
Did you know something?
That's the same attitude, though, that kept it from kidding me.
Don't get mad yet even, right?
It wasn't that at all.
It was their attitude.
It prevailed.
They are still arrogant.
Did you offer it to them by the key?
Yes, twice.
They're still trying, interestingly.
What a nice connection that is.
P-E-I-N-E-C-K-E.
I still can now, at least if we want to impose something on it in hindsight,
The attitude that they gave to me, expressed to me when I went there twice, they didn't have an acting librarian either time, and so they were, I'm sorry, a full librarian, the head of the library, they had acting librarians.
And both times, they gave me such an arrogant attitude toward me and toward the collection, suggesting that it really wasn't all that significant in relation to all of their significant collections, which indeed it was.
It's every bit as good as their Whitman and their O'Neill and their Joyce collections, as far as I'm concerned.
Maybe what they're saying, maybe what they're suggesting is that, in their view, Faulkner had that.
I don't see how they could take that position, though.
I'll tell you what their attitude was.
Maybe he wasn't in the same league as Joyce.
No, no.
It wasn't that.
It was they discovered that I had published a lot of the work already.
Although even what they didn't discover was that even though I've published it in certain ways,
It is there to be published and mined for years.
They thought that I had somehow diminished its importance to them as being capable of attracting scholars to the Meineke to work with the materials.
That was the best they could offer me, and the worst is they didn't want to pay any money.
That's important.
Well, it's important, but they have tons of money and they buy things all the time.
And this collection would have given them great distinction.
And they were real arrogant.
And I finally said fully on you guys.
Twice we tried.
Why I put it at CMO Finley was because those people seemed to make me feel that it would be a real important asset to a school like Southeast Missouri State.
We've already begun bringing people there from all over the world.
We had a lady there from Amsterdam studying it a month ago.
We haven't even opened it up to the public yet.
And we've had a number of people there.
We had a German scholar last year.
When it gets open to the public, we'll bring people to that little town in southern Missouri.
And it is an out-of-the-way place.
And it isn't Yale.
And it isn't University of Virginia.
But it'll forevermore be important in its own right.
It makes me feel good.
This would be one collection at Yale.
That's right.
And a great collection, but one of many great collections at Yale.
Here, this stands out like the arch on the banks of the Mississippi.
So maybe that is my ego.
Maybe that is my ego after all.
I was guessing that in a way.
Maybe you're right.
I know this simply, that I don't have a real big ego for people having to celebrate my work.
especially my collecting work, because as an artist, I think of myself first and foremost not as a book collector.
Matter of fact, we can talk about some of the psychology of that later.
I got to the point, one of the reasons I had to give it away when I gave it away was because I was tired of people dealing with me as a collector and as a Faulkner scholar, because I'd hit a point in my life where that was no longer tenable.
I had done that as long as I could do it,
and still retain my own sense, unique sense of who I am, because what I really am is not a collector.
I am, and I knew a long time ago that I was an artist, a poet, a writer, and that the collecting only satisfied certain needs that I had that were emotional, that were psychological, that might have been spiritual at one point.
I long ago outgrew Faulkner.
I actually got to the point where I believed I was as good an artist
that I was as good at my poetry as Faulkner got at his best as a prose writer.
Faulkner always wanted to be a poet, and he always lamented that he was a second-rate, or as he called it, a failed poet.
It gave me great stimulus to want a challenge, what a wonderful challenge,
to see if I could become the Faulkner of poets in America.
And I have been desperately, furiously working toward that for at least the last 10 years, though I've been writing for 25.
My writing poetry has almost run parallel to my collecting of Faulkner.
But about 10 years ago, I realized that I was going to have to jettison the collection because I didn't want to expend that energy
anymore to that degree on collecting or writing scholarly articles about William Faulkner.
But you still are collecting them.
I still am collecting them, but I'm doing it with a different mind.
I'm acquiring.
I'm still trying to develop it, as it were, but not with the same passion.
because my full passion that I once gave to the collecting, I give to my writing.
Now, I don't know if that's good or not.
We don't have to put that in your article at all.
But that's part of it too, jettisoning it.
I no longer needed to collect Faulkner.
There was part of the collecting derived from a physical almost requirement.
I needed to collect Faulkner for my own sanity, my own security at a certain point in my life.
It gave me a sense of place.
Faulkner.
That's what I am.
I'm a Faulkner collector.
Well, at least I know who I am.
Well, there was a lot of that when I was a young man.
And as I developed and I became more soundly grounded in my own sense that what I really am is an artist, an American poet.
I no longer needed that other.
So it's real interesting psychology.
And there's a lot more to it.
I'm just laying a little bit of that on the ground.
They must have been overjoyed to get the collection down here.
Did they, did they woo you, or is this something you proposed to them?
It was something that I proposed.
There was a wonderful man who is now not the president of the school.
He just left last year.
He'd been president for 10 years.
He and I were almost contemporaries.
Named Bill Stacy.
Bill Stacy, uh... S-T-A-C-Y.
S-T-A-C-Y.
And he goes by the name of Bill, not William.
President Bill W. Stacy.
His background was in English and public speaking.
He was yet an administrator.
He was the president of the college.
He had a great feel for aesthetics, for humanities.
He wasn't just an administrator.
He was absolutely overjoyed when I presented the notion, the prospect of allowing the collection to stay at Southeast Missouri State permanently.
I had put it there in 1983 or 4.
And he had made that possible.
He gave us a...
no strings attached a working environment so that Bob Hamblin and I could develop our work. Bob teaches at Southeast Missouri State. Bill Stacy never dreamed that the collection would end up at that university. He gave us a rare book room. He outfitted it from expenses out of the school with all the proper lighting and security equipment and air conditioning equipment
And we set up shop in there.
The books stayed there for five years.
The school would insure them, which was a large savings for me.
And there they stayed in relative isolation for Bob and myself to work on.
And I proposed to Bill Stacy in 1988.
I had actually started, Nick, with the University of Mississippi.
in about 1984.
Which makes sense.
That's the logical home, isn't it?
Yes.
And I started talking with their then chancellor, Porter Fortune, who was very eager to have the collection there.
And they had offered me, at that time, a million dollars for the collection.
Yes.
But as I continued discussions with them, I knew, number one, that the collection was worth a lot more than that.
But that wasn't the issue.
The critical issue was that they weren't going to give me a hand in staying with the collection, because I was too threatening to the people they had working.
You see, to use your word, you haven't jettisoned the collection.
No, I haven't.
You're right.
Because one of the stipulations is you require a hand.
And what goes on?
I still care about the collection.
But you've even got a title down here now, don't you?
Yes, I'm the curator.
Okay, that's having a hand in it.
Well, it is, and I'm real proud of that, because it wasn't that I had collected it to just jettison it, if you will.
I meant I had to put it in a different way.
I love the fact that we're entering Herculaneum in Missouri.
Very soon you're going to hit the Festus.
And then Crystal City.
Actually, we're on our way to where I lived for 18 years.
I lived in a small town of 8,500 people, Farmington, Missouri.
put the bulk of the collection together, working out of Farmington, this little nowhere place 75 miles southeast of St.
Louis.
Well, I'm going to go to Farmington, Connecticut, where, you know, whose collection is out there.
Wilmarth Lewis's Horace Walpole collection remains in situ, you know, I mean, it's in the house.
Wilmarth Lewis taught at Yale, didn't he?
Yeah, Yale owns it.
I mean, that was the deal.
It went to Yale, but the house went and everything stays in place.
Nice.
Interesting. Yeah yeah well listen people want to hold on to it. One of the things that I was healthy with to my good fortune was that I never had to physically have the books around me as I've known many collectors have had to have. You didn't have to sleep with them? No I didn't have to sleep with them at all, and it bothered me the whole notion of it when I was very young. But you did have to fondle them every once in a while? When I was really young I had to fondle them so to speak and I had to be with them and when I came back from Yale
and I lived with my in my parents home I had a my own little study in the back of the house and I had the walls lined with those two or three hundred Faulkner books plus my new library from Yale and I was very proud of that and I was starting to write my poetry at that time and I did have my books there and I liked having them around me and even when I moved to Farmington in 67 I had
No I didn't have the books with me then. They stayed at my parents home and then all the valuable books went into the safety deposit boxes in the Farmington bank. I didn't like that. But you see one of the great things about being a book collector is you can enjoy them on your own on a one-to-one basis. It's not like collecting art where you can somebody comes in and looks. I mean although
That's on one level, and yet on another level, by opening it up to scholars and to those qualified and interested and motivated, you are sharing it with other people, but you can certainly enjoy it by yourself.
I will tell you that I went through various stages of appreciation of the collection, and I feel now that I got to the point where I did not enjoy...
just having the books around me physically, the fact that there were more and more and more attesting to the fact that, oh, I have a bigger collection, I've expended more energy, I've got a more valuable collection now.
I got to the point where I didn't enjoy that at all, that rather they became so static.
And it was at that point, and I went through stages, I told you, I hit a stage after I got back from Yale in St.
Louis, where by 1967,
which was only like seven years after I started collecting, I realized I had collected about as much as I was going to collect.
I had no marble form, but I had a first run of books almost, and nothing was coming into the market.
I quit collecting at that point, and I started collecting Americana.
I didn't collect again until 74.
I left the books sheets covering the books at my parents' house.
What happened?
You went into remission or something?
I did.
I put a moratorium on the collecting completely.
I lost interest in it.
I had moved to a small town.
I had a different life.
I had married.
I was beginning to think about a family.
I was working in a business.
I was writing poems like mad.
I was collecting Americana with my wife.
I didn't have an interest in collecting books.
I didn't see books coming up that had any interest to me.
In 1974,
Margie Cohn called me and said, I have 12 inscribed books that I got from a woman in California, the widow of one of Faulkner's early friends out there.
His name was Hubert Starr.
I ended up taking my first loan from a bank, and I bought nine of the 12 books.
They were absolutely incredible.
How much?
I paid between $1,000 and $1,500 a book, which in 1974 was so staggering it scared the hell out of me.
Well, so let me just tell you.
I borrowed about $10,000 or $11,000, and it just scared the shit out of me because I'd never borrowed anything before, and I had to do it.
Did it ever occur to you?
Did it ever... I mean, did you say, well, that's an investment?
No, I didn't do it for that.
I said, uh-oh, here's something that I never knew I could ever have.
Now, let me tell you what happened there.
It was kind of exciting.
About the same time that happened, I had been looking at Carl Peterson's book.
It had just been published, and I was in awe of it.
It was called A Faulkner Collector's Notebook.
Let me also say for my typist, Margie, M-A-R-G-I-E-C-O-H-N, Annette.
Okay, go ahead.
I've been reading Carl's book.
I've been reading Carl's book, and then Margie called me, and I thought, my God, I guess I can play this game again.
So I took a great leap.
Number one, I leaped back into collecting Faulkner.
And I did it big time for me.
I borrowed $10,000 or $11,000.
I said, uh-oh, I'm in big trouble.
It's like putting a glass of scotch under the nose of an alcoholic who hasn't touched a drink in two years.
Correct.
Nice analogy.
Is that fair?
Yeah, maybe five or seven years.
And you gulped it down.
And Chivas Regal.
The good stuff.
This was the good stuff.
There were inscribed books.
by Faulkner to Hubert Starr of The Sound and the Fury.
Soldiers Pay, the first novel.
Mosquitoes, the second novel.
There was a rare Salma Gundy, a one of a kind.
To this day, we don't know anyone else who has an inscribed Salma Gundy, which was a book limited to about 425 copies.
Well, but I didn't do it because I thought it was an investment.
I did it because it excited me.
Did you talk this over with anybody in the family?
No, I didn't.
And then I came back to my wife and I said, I've done something real crazy.
You told her, huh?
Yeah, I told her.
And...
A lot of people might do this kind of thing without... It's like a closet drinker or something.
I wouldn't have done that.
Keeping a jug in the closet.
Yeah, people do that.
In the early years, she encouraged that.
She certainly didn't discourage it.
But what happened...
was if I can get the dates right on this now I bought those books and all of a sudden I had nine inscribed copies. I still didn't have A Marble Faun. About four or five months later a wonderful auction came up in New York, I had known the collect known of the collector, a lady and I've forgotten her name right now, we'll get it, Bob will remember it, whose collection had come up it had five or six simulating Faulkner pieces in it from which I bought
the galley proofs of the Hamlet, and then I bought my first Marble Faun.
And that was exciting.
But all of a sudden, I had a Marble Faun.
And I said, wow, now I got a collection.
Now I really have a first run of books, plus I got nine inscribed books.
So I called Washington University.
And at that time, Holly Hall was now the new director.
The one who first saw the collection in 64 and wanted to put it on was William Matheson, who subsequently became the chief librarian at the Library of Congress, and is still there.
He had great taste.
He said, wow, what a collection, even in the early days.
So Holly said, oh yeah, I'd love to put this exhibit on now.
So in 76, 12 years later, after the first exhibit, we put on an exhibit that now really could boast a beautiful catalog.
And the upshot of that, that was just spectacular.
I was real proud.
of that collection and I get a call about a week later from a man in Tulsa, Oklahoma. His name was Vance Broach. Vance said my daughter-in-law just called me and said there's a very wonderful Faulkner exhibit and she knows that her father-in-law loves Faulkner and collects Faulkner. It turned out that he didn't really collect Faulkner. He had he was the beneficiary of
A very large collection that had come to him from his Aunt Bama McLean from Memphis, Tennessee.
Her name was Alabama.
Leroy Falkner McLean.
F-A-L-K-N-E-R.
She was the youngest daughter of the old colonel.
It turns out that William Faulkner and Vance Broach were second cousins.
It turns out that Aunt Bama left in her will all of her Faulkner materials to Vance, because Vance loved Faulkner's literature.
Vance was considerably older than I. He was in his 60s then, middle 60s at the time I met him, which was like in 76, end of 76.
I spoke with him.
I got very excited.
I said, well, yes, I have this collection.
He said, oh, I'd love to see it, but I can't leave now.
I said...
Mr. Boach, I'd love to come and visit you.
He never said what he had.
It turned out that what he had was an entire run of another ten inscribed books, that he had Faulkner manuscripts and typescripts that Bama had been given by her nephew, William.
It turns out more than that that Faulkner only loved Aunt Bama McLean.
Bama Faulkner was his dear
not love, but was the lady he most admired after his own mother, Maude.
And she was one of the few people that ever held sway with him, Bama.
I wrote about her a little bit in the Faulkner book.
She's the one they called down when they were
doing the premiere for Intruder in the Dust because they couldn't get Billy to get dressed up to go to the premiere.
So they called Aunt Bama to come down from Memphis.
That's great.
So she drove to 70 miles down and yanked Billy out of the house.
So let's get back to confronting this collection.
So let me tell you what happened.
I drove out to Tulsa.
And all of a sudden, I drove out to Tulsa.
From where?
From here?
From St.
Louis.
From Farmington, sorry.
From Farmington.
But I mean here.
Yeah.
five or six hour drive, and I was really excited.
I just took off from work.
I said, I got to go meet this man.
Well, I got there, and he showed me all these incredible books.
And here I had just acquired some inscribed books, which never came up on the market.
And I thought, all of a sudden, I realized the great insight that was going to make the whole collection from that point on.
It was the pivot point.
Doing the exhibit at Washington, you created the first exposure.
Then people now were aware of your existence.
All of a sudden, what I realized, that Carl Peterson's book couldn't teach me.
What Carl Peterson's book taught me a couple years before was, my God, here's a man, one man, who could put together this whole collection, this one author collection, and if he can do that, I'll bet you I can dream high enough to do that same thing.
so I would read Carl's book till I had it memorized and then I met Vance and I said oh my god here's the other key to that puzzle, and it came to me not like a light going on, but it took time but what it was in essence was ah Faulkner was a human being. He had a whole network of people he'd known and who had known him, family associates Hollywood people New York people literary people
Brodsky, there are people all over this country who knew Faulkner.
He just died in 62, right?
While I was still in college, he died.
I said, Brodsky, there are people all over this country like Vance Broach.
There just have to be.
So the next thing I did, Joe Blotner's book had been published in 74, his two-volume biography.
That was the other quintessential key that gave me
the answers if you will. It's a mixed metaphor, but the answers to how I could go about putting a collection together. With Carl's book to show me that you could do it or that at least a man had done it put together that massive comprehensive a collection that I could at least set my standards
to Carl's standards.
I didn't dream I would ever accomplish what Carl did, let alone go way past.
No, no, that's not what you said to me on the phone.
You said he inspired me to not only, if he could do it, I could do it, and I could do it better.
I think you said that.
I would say that I got to that point.
And maybe that's true, because that's my nature.
Because you're competitive.
I'm very competitive.
You're a jerk.
You don't want to like to lose.
Well, you're right.
I probably picked up that book.
I guess what I told you was the right impulse.
I'm a real competitive cuss.
And I picked up that book, and I guess my first dreams were
Although I wouldn't have verbalized him at that point.
I can do it after the fact now.
Yes, I'm sure the impulse was.
Not only do I want to accomplish that, but in doing it, I certainly want to be better than he added.
That's the same way I felt about my art.
I want to be better than Faulkner at my poetry, than Faulkner was at his prose.
I generate that way.
That's the way I work.
Am I?
Yes.
Yes, I am.
I've now got there with the poetry.
Yes, I am, and that's not arrogant.
I think my poetry is every bit as profound and will be dealt with in schools and universities as Faulkner's prose.
It has yet to be found, but Faulkner's prose wasn't found by a large public either until the late 40s.
And I'm convinced that the distribution, the promulgation of paperbacks, which was new at that time, had more than anything to do with that.
Are there Faulknerian themes?
Oh, yes, there are some.
Yes, of course.
But there is not a Faulknerian voice.
My own voice is in there.
I couldn't do that.
I wrote seven novels.
They all were Faulknerian in style.
That's why I never went on with that.
There's seven complete novels in my apprenticeship.
Were you L.D.
Brodsky trying to be William Faulkner?
Absolutely.
I've got a wonderful poem in Mississippi Vistas where I talk about that, about the artist who's sitting on the lawn at Roanoke, and he's being gnawed by ants who've come to eat him.
He's dying in the aura of Faulkner.
It's more eloquent than that.
I'd like to just put to insert that poem in there, and I forgot the title of it, but it's real interesting.
Actually, there are a couple in that book where I talk about this poet who is being sundered.
by the aura that Faulkner still created in Oxford, I would go there and write.
And I realized in my collection... What are those hay things?
Large hay bales.
Hay bales, but they're rolled, huh?
Yeah, they're rolled now.
That's the way they do them.
They're really large.
They're big gleaners that pull that together.
Combines.
Where are we now?
We're heading southeast down Highway 55.
OK.
Go ahead.
I'm sorry.
Anyway, I'm not, I don't feel real eloquent today, but to get back to the subject.
You're doing fine.
Don't worry.
The subject is, where I left at was that I saw the two elements.
They came to me.
I couldn't have verbalized them, but the two elements were one that a man had done what Carl had done, had accomplished that, had put together a one-authored collection.
And secondly, now that I'd met Vance Broach,
What I found was that there was a Vance brooch and that Vance had the most incredible trove.
B-R-O-A-C-H?
Correct.
He and I became dear friends.
He loved my collection.
He loved what I'd done.
He had no real aesthetic appreciation for the fact that he owned inscribed copies, both to himself from Faulkner and to Aunt Bama.
He didn't really care that he had the letters.
He didn't really care that he had the manuscripts.
He loved Faulkner's literature.
I ended up trading him all kinds of editions
in books that he preferred, that he wanted.
He actually wanted quantity.
It was very strange.
So that was the approach I took with him.
At that time, in my collection, I had all kinds of duplicates.
I soon realized I never again wanted another duplicate in the collection.
So I used up all those duplicates, hundreds and hundreds of duplicate copies that I probably bought for very little that I traded to him
for maybe 50 or 60 or 70 items that he had.
So no money changed hands?
No money.
Jesus.
He didn't want money, and I didn't have money.
But what he was was impressed with what I was doing.
He loved the fact that I had put together the collection I had.
Did he have a sense that these things were probably worth a lot of money?
No.
And you didn't tell him?
No, I didn't, because I didn't.
Oh, I'll tell you what I did, though.
No, let's be fair about that.
I had already bought nine inscribed books, and I knew I'd paid between $1,000 and $1,500 for them.
I told him that.
Oh, no, I told him that.
I said, I'm going to trade you.
No, because I had to deal with that.
That was the first time I came to that problem.
Let me tell you about it.
I mean, does one have to go through some kind of ethical evaluation of what we're doing?
Absolutely.
Oh, absolutely.
I had to deal with that, and it started there.
And every time I dealt with another person, I had to size that up in my own mind.
Could I justify doing any of the actions I was doing in an ethical manner?
And if I couldn't, then I wouldn't do them.
And with Vance, I made it very clear.
I did an appraisal of his collection for him.
My appraisal was very honest.
My appraisal on his inscribed books was identical.
Each item was identical in value.
I appraised them at $1,000 to $1,500 a book.
He was awed, but he wasn't frightened enough to keep them.
He didn't think, my God, they're so valuable, I'm going to keep them.
He wanted what I had.
He came to our house in St.
Louis, my parents' house.
We had dinner together.
He looked at the big collection that was still there.
He wanted a whole bunch of shelves full of books.
It was real strange.
That was my first encounter.
So that worked fine for me because I had duplicates.
And this is about 76, 77.
This was 77.
So I traded him hundreds and hundreds of books that monetarily had an equivalent value to what he had.
Aesthetically, collectorly wise, they were worthless.
I gave him a full run of magazines as an example.
I valued them at $15 to $20 a magazine.
Well, okay, not much money, but by the time I traded him 200 magazines, you had a lot of money there.
These all had Faulkner pieces?
Oh, absolutely.
I gave him, in essence, what I did, Nick, with him.
I outfitted him with a massive Faulkner collection.
Now, that was his psyche.
He didn't care.
He wanted bulk.
He wanted to have shelves in his apartment full of Faulkner books.
And a few association copies were irrelevant to him.
They were.
They were irrelevant to him because they didn't have any meaning to him.
Because he knew Faulkner.
They were OK.
But they weren't.
That's wonderful.
Congratulations.
Well, that was the first one.
And it was interesting.
And I hadn't taken advantage of him.
And I'll tell you what.
He had one book, and I'm thinking about it now, that was
dear to him personally.
It was the first book he'd ever read.
It was Sartoris, and it was inscribed by Faulkner to Vance.
And I know that Mrs. Broach still has the book.
S-A-R-T-O-R-I-S.
That's the one book he wanted to keep.
He said, this is the only one that really has a personal meaning for me, even though some of the others were inscribed to him and to his Aunt Bama, McLean.
That was a nice story.
And what that did, I visited with him four or five times in Tulsa.
He came to visit in St.
Louis, and he stayed with us in Farmington, he and his wife.
I love Shirley.
She is really a dear woman, and she still writes me, and we still correspond.
And the beautiful thing of all of it, he knew what I was doing.
He knew I wasn't going to sell him.
He knew that from the outset, or he wouldn't have let me have him.
And I knew I wasn't going to sell him, and I told him I'm going to write about Anvail.
And I already showed him what I was doing early on, and he liked all that.
How old were you?
Oh, I was at that time in 77.
What was I, 30?
You were in your 30s.
My mid-30s.
But that was my first.
And then I knew.
And so having read Blotner, religiously, he became my Bible, the biography.
Did you just wish it were better written?
It's not well written at all, but what it did do was give me... But the facts are there.
It gave me a road map to the people who'd been part of Faulkner's life.
And I began writing, I began calling, and over the next 10 or 12 years, I traveled all over the country.
using Plotner as a roadmap to lead me to the people I needed to go to.
Wow, let's pause on that.
That's really good.
He used a biography as a roadmap, as a source book, to become an activist, an interventionist kind of a collector.
Wait, I'm just making up these words now.
Yeah, good, good.
I mean, a physician says they take invasive procedures.
That's when they cut you open.
So you actually are a collector.
who has used invasive procedures.
Well, let me tell you why I did that too, Nick.
I never enjoyed... Let me back that up.
When I met Henry Wenning, I enjoyed Henry.
W-E-N-N-I-N-G.
Henry was the first one I met in New Haven, I told you.
Right, okay.
In the early 60s.
Henry was a very sophisticated man.
He took a liking to me, so he saw I had an interest in the books, as books.
And I was a young Yalie, and he would teach me.
He'd say, oh, no, you never want to buy this book because its condition isn't right.
Here's a book that someday you'll hope to buy.
I can't sell you this one now because it's $100.
It was Salma Gundy, and I have a collector for it.
It turns out.
That's a tough title to get.
Well, it was in the beginning.
Yeah, it's tough now.
Well, I got five or six in the collection, and they're all variants, and they're all wonderful.
It's got a little Hemingway poem in it, too.
It does.
It's got a poem ultimately on the back of it.
A real strange little volume.
I guess what I was going to say is the reason I took those invasive procedures was this.
I made friends with Henry.
Then I met Margie Kohn.
He suggested I go meet Margie at the House of Books in New York.
So on one of my trips to New York one weekend, I went and introduced myself.
She was a lovely, wonderful, interesting, exciting lady to the young LD.
And I made a friendship with her that lasted until her death in the 80s.
And I just admired her.
I loved going in and visiting with her.
Over the years, I bought a number of books from her.
Toward the end, toward the last six or seven years, every time I go in there, she'd say, oh, LD, I can't sell you another book.
You have too much.
I'm going to sell them to other people.
And I'd say, Margie, god damn you, you can't do that.
I'd say, that's no way to run a business.
I need that book.
I'm sorry, LD, you've got too many books.
She was teasing you.
Yeah, she was teasing me.
And then occasionally, she'd let me have one or two that I wanted.
I made friends with her.
But my point is, I made friends with no other dealers until I met Glenn Horowitz in the early 80s.
And I took a great liking to Glenn because Glenn was a deal-doer, and he was fun.
He's a hustler.
He's a hustler, and I enjoyed that.
He and I have a lot of the same stuff, share a lot of that same hustler stuff in us, too.
I don't want to go on record with that work.
No.
That was my word, actually.
Yeah, it wouldn't be my word.
He just has a real excitement and an energy.
and a sense of challenge and he learned from me how to create a wonderful book business and I will sort of take some credit for it because he has credited me with having taught him how to go out and find the books. Now my point is this. I named the three book dealers on one hand and that's about the speed of it. Cccasionally I'd buy a book or I'd buy an occasional book
from Maury Neville or from one or two other dealers.
By and large, I never enjoyed receiving book dealers catalogs.
It bored me.
I would rather read a book of poetry or a book of fiction.
Those bored me because by and large, collecting books out of book dealers catalogs for me was static.
Going to book dealers to look over their shelves was static.
What I learned from having met Vance, I'm a people person.
I got the greatest pleasure of being invited to sleep at Vance's home, of being taken out to dinner by Vance and Shirley Broach, of being taken to meet their friends, of sharing in their children, of doing things with them, of having them come to St.
Louis and Farmington and visit my family.
I cared about book collecting on a personal level.
I loved the fact that I knew the man who had known Faulkner, who had stayed at Roanoke.
I loved that.
That, to me, was what book collecting should be for me.
It was dynamic.
It's kind of like John Quinn collected, you know.
Are you familiar with John Quinn?
No, I'm not.
He'll be in my book.
I won't call you.
That excited me.
So that's the way I perceive it.
Have you ever heard of John Quinn?
I have, but I haven't read a lot of him.
He's very important.
Yeah, sure.
He'll tell me about it.
When the machine is off.
Yeah, okay.
But that to me, I was armed with Blotner.
I was armed with my Peterson.
I had now met Vance Broach.
I had instead of nine inscribed Hubert Starbucks under my belt,
and one Marble Faun I now had a second. Oh I know the kicker to that story. I had to not only give up all the duplicates but the one thing that killed me that he did want Vance would do all these deals but he wanted desperately a copy of the first Faulkner book. Well I had just four months earlier acquired my first Marble Faun and it meant a great deal to me
Vance wanted the Marble Faun, and the whole deal, though it was unspoken, hinged
and so I visited with him on three different occasions and each time he would let me have a little more of the material but it finally worked down to his having to acquire my Faun. Well that was a great sacrifice. I let it go and that was the best judgment I ever made. And at this point you don't have a Faun? No no now that was in 1977. But I mean at this point at that point when you gave that up? I gave it up and it was extremely significant. Yeah but did you have another? No I didn't so it took great guts
Here, four months earlier, my heart had stopped with excitement when my package came from the auction house containing the first Marble Faun.
Well, the Marble Faun was just the epitome of epitomes.
Aesthetically, at that time, it was much more significant than any inscribe book or anything could ever be, because that's, as a collector, what any Faulkner collector dreamed of.
Oh, you have to get a Marble Faun.
I will tell you now, in hindsight, that I've had ten go through my hands.
I still have five in the collection.
I've used other ones to trade, but at that time it was really significant.
Wait a minute.
If you've got five in the collection, you say you don't want duplicate books.
They're all different.
One's inscribed... Well, three of them are inscribed to different people.
The fourth one is an association copy of William Alexander Percy.
And the fifth one has another distinction to it.
Walker Percy's uncle.
Huh?
Walker Percy's uncle, his Uncle Will.
I'm sorry, William Alexander Percy.
That's Walker Percy's uncle.
Yes.
So you said William Alexander Percy.
Oh, I did?
Yeah, but that happens to be Walker Percy's uncle.
That's who brought up Walker Percy.
Yes, yes.
And furthermore, Faulkner had read one of William Alexander Percy's early books.
Yeah, they liked each other.
Yeah, they respected each other.
Yes, they did.
And so I thought, what a wonderful association copy.
I've got all of Will Percy's books signed.
Do you?
Well, I have a very fine Walker Percy collection.
Oh, wonderful.
I love Walker Percy.
Yeah, he's wonderful.
Well, there you are now.
That was the beginning of it.
And that set off a chain reaction.
Right after that, in 1976 then, I went to my first Faulkner and Yoknobutafa conference.
They had started in 74 in Oxford.
They were a tribute to Faulkner.
It was a gathering for a week of Faulkner scholars who would lecture.
I didn't go to the first two because I was a very shy person.
I didn't want to be around people.
The third one, by the time of the third one in 76, I thought, ah, I've just had an exhibit of Faulkner, and now I'm a real Faulknerian.
Should we do for the sake of my typist?
Y-O-K-N-A-P-A-T-A-W-P-H-A.
OK.
I went down there.
Look at the pumpkins in the fields over there.
That's nice.
Go ahead.
Oh, boy.
I'll tell you what I did.
You're not going to believe what I did.
I'm not going to even tell you what I did, but I did something so wrong.
I was shooting the shit with you so much, I've done something just terrible.
You missed a turn.
I did miss a turn, and I never missed a turn.
We're going to get out of here a little late.
Sorry.
Ah, that's just too much.
This was a real psychological thing.
It's only 9 o'clock, you know.
It's fine.
Oh, it's fine anyway.
But I did something I really, I'm going to lose this about a half an hour.
I like it.
It's great.
I'll tell you why, though.
Well, I'll tell you why I like it, too.
We're going to stop in my favorite little town, Farmington, Missouri.
I'll tell you why I did this.
I must have driven from Farmington to St.
Louis and St.
Louis back and written so many thousands of poems on this little drive we're doing now that I can do it blindfolded.
We're now only about 10 minutes from Farmington.
I should have stayed on 55.
Instead, I took the Farmington turnoff unconsciously.
We're now heading to the home I lived in for 18 years where Carl Peterson visited, where I put together the Faulkner collection. I've only been in St. Louis for five years and I feel real dislocated. I lived in this little town for many many years. It was out of here that I did all my correspondence that I did all my traveling to put the Faulkner collection together. So the collection really is physically pretty close to where it was put together? Indeed it is. It's within an hour and a half yeah
Yes, it is.
And it's in Missouri, which pleases me very much.
There is an appositeness to that.
There is, because I'm a Missourian.
I wanted to keep it in Missouri.
I thought about Columbia.
It would have been better, more prestigious than SEMO, the Southeast Missouri State.
But I don't have any affiliations.
I thought about Washington U. You might ask me why not.
It's a wonderful school.
And the same thing I got at Washington U that I got at Yale.
was a real sense of arrogance from the people who run those libraries.
Somehow, in their own jobs, which aren't trivial by any extent, but are certainly, how shall I put it, curatorial at best.
They're not real innovative for the most part.
Those people are lacking, the kinds of people I dealt with, lacking in sufficient innovativeness to say, well, yes, we can acquire this collection if we can do this, that, and the other.
Now, Southeast Missouri State was innovative.
The way they got the collection, they got it in a number of ways.
Part of the way they got it was by making me curator.